Each day should not take you more than 10-15 minutes worth of efforts.
Day 4
Today we will start our first code generation and generate an event directly from the Event Model in Miro. You will also learn about the typical cycle while developing a code generator.
You can follow along in the Video ​here​ :




https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wSgOUg-vfL0






First, choose an empty folder on your machine and run your local code-generator-service using this docker command:
docker run -ti -p 3001:3000 -v $PWD:/workspace --name codegen --rm nebulit/codegen
(Make sure to pull the latest image before using "docker pull nebulit/codegen")
Remember the location of this folder, you will open it in your local IDE later.


You then open the Event Model in Miro, and switch to the Code Generator Tab.



4-1.png


Select your Model-Context in the Drop-Down - make sure your generator is available ( happens automatically if the docker container is running)

4-2.png






"Create Config" exports your Event Model to a config.json file on your local machine.
Now switch back to your local container. 
You can generate the "sample-generator" by calling the "gen" command in your container.




4-3.png



Select "sample-generator" - this will generate a template for a code-generator in a ".generator" folder.


Switch to the .generator/app folder and run "npm install" once.

4-4.png








You now have a first executable code generator locally. You can open the folder you used initially to run the code-generator container in your Editor of choice ( in the video I´m using IntelliJ ). You can already inspect the .generator-folder.



4-5.png






Back in your running docker-container, we will now run the generator once by running:
gen .generator/app

4-6.png






This will analyze the exported config.json and ask you which events to generate. 
Select the Event by hitting space and then enter.


4-7.png





Congratulations. You just generated your first code. 


That´s all for today. Tomorrow we will adjust the code generator to our needs.


See you tomorrow!



Tools you need
Git: ​https://github.com/dilgerma/eventsourced-quiz​
Accelerate Miro Toolkit: ​https://miro.com/marketplace/eventmodeling/​
​Miro Board​


Things you should consider
If you already want to dive deeper into Eventmodeling and Evnentsourcing - here are some links for you.
Book "​Understanding Eventsourcing​"
​Companion Online Course - "Implementing Eventsourcing" ( includes a full license of the Miro Toolkit )​
Podcast "​Eventmodeling & Eventsourcing​"
​Eventmodelers.de​
​Eventmodeling Tutorial​


Learning Eventmodeling faster with your Team - you can book me for Training & Consulting. 
I´m offering very flexible bookings packages, even on demand. Just answer to this E-Mail if you want to learn more.


See you tomorrow!


