Typically we try to keep the efforts at 5-10 Minutes. 
You´ll find complete implementation for day- 7in the git-repo on the branch "day-7"
​https://github.com/dilgerma/eventsourced-quiz​
Day 7
Yesterday, we generated all Command Handlers.
Today, we will take care of the resulting Events.
First, we generate the Union Type for all Events


7-1.png



For this we define a new function "renderUnionTypes"

7-2.png




We´ll adjust the Command Handler Template to return a list of Quiz Events.


7-3.png



Now the goal is to apply the resulting Events from the Configuration. It should look like this doing simple assignments from the command to the event.



7-4.png


For this we´ll adjust the 'generateCommandHandlers' function.
First we find all 'OUTBOUND' Events, meaning Events that are created from the command. Every element has a "dependencies" array, with all 'INBOUND' and 'OUTBOUND' dependencies. An 'INBOUND' Dependency could be an Event connected to a Read Model.
Dependencies share the same id as the original Element. So we can just search all Events for the correct id to get the full Event ( dependencies themselves only contain very few informations )


7-5.png



Using the Inbound Events, we can now just build the result event list by simply deconstructing the target implementation defined earlier.


7-6.png



In the last step we are applying the resultEventArray to the command handler.


7-7.png



And in the end we have a full list of command handlers including resulting Events.


7-8.png



Of course there is no validation logic and some Command Handlers will require small manual adjustments, but overall that saved us a lot of time.


This was propably the most complicated part, using the dependencies to build up complete Command Handlers. But I hope this exercise was worth it. Checkout the implementation on the "day-7" branch and play with it. 
Hint - the generated code here does not care too much about formatting. I often do the formatting once directly in the Development Environment.
Tomorrow we will put these Command Handlers to work.
Tools you need
Git: ​https://github.com/dilgerma/eventsourced-quiz​
Accelerate Miro Toolkit: ​https://miro.com/marketplace/eventmodeling/​
​Miro Board​


Things you should consider
If you already want to dive deeper into Eventmodeling and Evnentsourcing - here are some links for you.
Book "​Understanding Eventsourcing​"
​Companion Online Course - "Implementing Eventsourcing" ( includes a full license of the Miro Toolkit )​
Podcast "​Eventmodeling & Eventsourcing​"
​Eventmodelers.de​
​Eventmodeling Tutorial​


Learning Eventmodeling faster with your Team - you can book me for Training & Consulting. 
I´m offering very flexible bookings packages, even on demand. Just answer to this E-Mail if you want to learn more.




